# fined-grained-sentiment-analysis
Airbnb has witnessed explosive success in recent years. However, the company must be able to understand its current standing in the constantly evolving market. In fact, the recent entrance of several peer-to-peer accommodation platforms to the market and the acquirement of HomeAway by Expedia have created the competition for greater market share. Although Airbnb may still be the market leader, the constant overlooking of customer experience by the company may eventually lead to the reduction of market share. Particularly, there is a positive bias found in Airbnb’s comment section and this may have limited the company’s awareness about its’ weaknesses or area for improvement. In order to reveal the customer experience, the current study make use of Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) alongside fine-grained sentiment analysis to generate a set of expectations that are unique to the Airbnb users and analyse their type and valence of the sentiments. The current project will help the business gain a better understanding of the customer experience with their brand and help demonstrate a better alternative in conducting sentiment analysis through fine-grained sentiment analysis technique. 

## Significance of the project
Aside from hindering the company’s ability to improve, the lack of negative or neutral comments have also indirectly led to the lack of research conducted in this regard. So far, majority of the studies conducted have focused primarily at the positive reviews (Hu, Zhang, Pavlou, 2009). Although a pioneering study on negative comments of Airbnb was conducted by Sthapit and Bjork (2019), the researchers have chosen the qualitative methods where only major themes were extracted from the negative comments collected. Although the study has provided some guidance in regard to the dissatisfaction experienced by customers of Airbnb, the study did not indicate the extent of the customers dissatisfaction on various aspects of Airbnb’s service. By performing an in-depth analysis on the comments of the Airbnb guests, the current project may provide contribution in both the research community and the business context. Specifically, the findings may demonstrate the advantages of using data analytics techniques in understanding customers experience. Furthermore, the fine-grained sentiment analysis technique chosen will also provide greater nuances in terms of indicating the extent of customers’ emotion polarity. By making use of the findings, the company will be able to understand the true experiences of the customers and rectify aspects that the company is lacking. 

## Methods
1. Web scraping from trustpilot and airbnb with beautiful soup (academic purposes)
2. Data exploration - data quality and visualization
3. Data pre-processing - lower cases, data cleaning if required.
4. Expect Extraction - LDA
5. Aspect Sentiment Analysis
6. Result.
